1. Introduction


Step 0 of the project is about installing and getting familiar with the ANTLR tool. The ANTLR tool will be used to generate the scanner and parser portions of the compiler project from a file that defines the grammar of a specific programming language.  For these reasons it is important to become well acquainted with ANTLR. 


2. Background


A compiler is a program that takes a text file written in some language and creates byte-code for the written program that can be executed on some target machine.


The purpose of compilers is to allow programmers to develop using higher-level, more powerful languages that are to read and write than lower-level languages (I.E.: c or assembly).
        
Compilers are partitioned into 4 components to reduce coupling and simplify the compilation process. These 4 components are:
        
* Scanner
* Parser
* Symbol Table
* Code Generation
                
Scanner


The scanner reads the text file provided to the compiler to be into byte-code. It performs a lexical analysis of the in order to create a series of symbols that correspond to individual segments of the code. A symbol may represent a method name, an operation like '+' or '-', open and close parentheses, brackets, etc. This series of symbols the code in the compiled text file, and is passed to the Parser to group and make sense of the the tokens read in by the scanner.
        
Parser


The parser performs syntactical analysis on the symbols provided to it by the scanner. These symbols are put into a parse tree which defines the structure of the written program. No meaning is attached to the parse tree yet; only the structure of the program is determined by the parser.
        


3. Methods and Discussion


ANTLR Setup


ANTLR is a program which generates a scanner and parser for the user given a configuration file (of the file format .g4). These files contain 2 sections: the lexer and the parser. This program is provided by ANTLR in the form of a .jar file named 'antlr-4.7.1-complete.jar'. This .jar file contains multiple programs, including one that we used to generate a lexer and a parser.


As part of the process of setting up ANTLR, we followed a tutorial on using ANTLR provided by ANTLR at www.antlr.org. The tutorial provided the following .g4 file named Hello.g4:


grammar Hello;
r  : 'hello' ID ;
ID : [a-z]+ ;
WS : [ \t\r\n]+ -> skip ;


After downloading and placing ANTLR's 'antlr-4.7.1-complete.jar' file-path into the target machines  environment variables, it was possible to invoke the 'org.antlr.v4.Tool' program in this .jar with the Hello.g4 file and an arbitrary string as input. This program scanned the string using the scanner defined in Hello.g4, and it determined if it was syntactically correct according to Hello.g4's grammar.




4. Conclusion and Future Work